# snow-Dayz


Extracting snow characteristics from wildlife camera images has been explored in ecology and hydrology in recent years as a finer-scale option for weather information relative to satellites or weather stations. However, classifying winter weather images is laborious. Models to detect weather exist for traffic cameras and other applications, but no model exists to identify winter storms, such as rain or snow, unique to the background and lighting conditions of camera traps. We present a model to estimate weather labels on camera trap images as a first pass for identifying weather. On a sample of 14,052 images, we created a weather classifier (i.e., weather or no weather) generated from two years of camera trap images from 650 cameras in Norway. When testing on a third year of data, the model produces predictions with a precision and recall score of 0.52 and 0.52, respectively. We argue that both metrics are higher in real-world scenarios due to multiple labelers and hard-to-see conditions in the training dataset. For a 3-class classifier that distinguishes weather for either rain or snow, we report a balanced accuracy of 0.47. Again, we suggest that the error in the model is due to difficulty labeling by multiple labelers and difficulty of the problem. Time logic, i.e., presenting the model with an image before and after the image of interest, did not improve accuracy in either a binary or 3-class classifier model. This model is the first of its kind to detect weather in camera images, and we suggest it as a first-pass method to narrow down datasets to subsets that can be reexamined with expert opinion or other data validation. Tools that can accelerate the ability to analyze weather in relation to animals are urgently needed to improve wildlife monitoring in a rapidly changing climate.

